The early detection of fire could save people and building and reduce the losses as much as possible; in addition, primary 
procedures might be taken in the fire place until the arriving of the firemen to the place of fire. Perhaps a small act can prevent 
major disasters, fire often occurs in different places of the city, such as houses, factories, commercial complexes, hospitals and 
other public places, so there has been an urgent need to propose a smart system of firefighting in cities based on internet of things.
The first appearance of the term internet of things was in 1999 by the British scientist Kevin Ashton. It means the new generation of 
the internet, so that all things in our lives can be connected to the internet, and thus will have the ability to communicate 
and interact with each other to send and receive data to perform specific functions through the network. The rapid development
in the field of information technology and communications makes the connection of anything and from any place and at any time 
(Anything, Anytime, Anywhere - AAA) with other things connected to the internet is possible, the concept of the internet of
things is removing the boundaries and assist people who want to connect and interact with objects around them from the
constraints of time and space. According to CISCO, it is estimated that 50 billion devices will be connected to the
internet by 2020, the number of devices will exceed the population of the globe. Internet of things is a new technology, 
which might be suitable in the firefighting applications, because IoT has high degree of smart, high scalability, high resource 
sharing capabilities and other characteristics. The proposed system has the ability to deal with the fire event as soon as 
getting the data to reduce the damage caused by the fire, which may not only be material losses, but may be even worse to be 
the losses of life. The smart firefighting center will take necessary procedures and actions in the case of fire by sending directly 
the firemen to the place where the fire occurred. This produces fast response which prevents spreading the fire. Indirect benefit of 
the smart firefighting system is reducing the air pollution by smoke that caused by fire, which lead to thermal pollution, especially 
if the fire is large. The paper is organized as follows. In Section II, the system design is presented showing and describing the
main electronic components that have been used in this paper. Section III describes the results and the discussions for the 
experiments that have been conducted. Finally, in section IV we draw conclusions and discuss the direction of future work.
